Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Approximately 24 cat skins can make a coat.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
The first official cat show in the UK was organised at Crystal Palace in 1871.
A cat's field of vision is about 200 degrees.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
The most expensive cat was an Asian Leopard cat (ALC)-Domestic Shorthair (DSH) hybrid named Zeus. Zeus, who is 90% ALC and 10% DSH, has an asking price of £100,000 ($154,000).
Ginger tabby cats can have freckles around their mouths and on their eyelids!
Most cats adore sardines.
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
In Siam, the cat was so revered that one rode in a chariot at the head of a parade celebrating the new king.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
Ailurophile is the word cat lovers are officially called.
Relative to its body size, the clouded leopard has the biggest canines of all animals’ canines. Its dagger-like teeth can be as long as 1.8 inches (4.5 cm).
A cat can travel at a top speed of approximately 31 mph (49 km) over a short distance.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
A 2007 Gallup poll revealed that both men and women were equally likely to own a cat.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
70% of your cat's life is spent asleep.
A cat's cerebral cortex contains about twice as many neurons as that of dogs. Cats have 300 million neurons, whereas dogs have about 160 million. See, cats rule, dogs drool!
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
Cats hate the water because their fur does not insulate well when it’s wet. The Turkish Van, however, is one cat that likes swimming. Bred in central Asia, its coat has a unique texture that makes it water resistant.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
Cats prefer to remain non-confrontational. They will not fight to show dominance, but rather to stake their territory. Cats will actually go to extremes to avoid one another in order to prevent a possible confrontation.
Cats should not be fed tuna exclusively, as it lacks taurine, an essential nutrient required for good feline health.  Make sure you have the proper Pet supplies to keep your cat happy and healthy.
The Amur leopard is one of the most endangered animals in the world.
If your cat snores, or rolls over on his back to expose his belly, it means he trusts you.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
The oldest cat to give birth was Kitty who, at the age of 30, gave birth to two kittens. During her life, she gave birth to 218 kittens.
Most cats adore sardines.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
It has been scientifically proven that owning cats is good for our health and can decrease the occurrence of high blood pressure and other illnesses.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they can't produce it on their own.
In contrast to dogs, cats have not undergone major changes during their domestication process.
Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
The term “puss” is the root of the principal word for “cat” in the Romanian term pisica and the root of secondary words in Lithuanian (puz) and Low German puus. Some scholars suggest that “puss” could be imitative of the hissing sound used to get a cat’s attention. As a slang word for the female pudenda, it could be associated with the connotation of a cat being soft, warm, and fuzzy.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
The silks created by weavers in Baghdad were inspired by the beautiful and varied colors and markings of cat coats. These fabrics were called 'tabby' by European traders.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
The lightest cat on record is a blue point Himalayan called Tinker Toy, who weighed 1 pound, 6 ounces (616 g). Tinker Toy was 2.75 inches (7 cm) tall and 7.5 inches (19 cm) long.
Cats can predict earthquakes. We humans are not 100% sure how they do it. There are several different theories.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
A cat can sprint at about thirty-one miles per hour.
Abraham Lincoln loved cats. He had four of them while he lived in the White House.
The strongest climber among the big cats, a leopard can carry prey twice its weight up a tree.
It may take as long as 2 weeks for a kitten to be able to hear well.  Their eyes usually open between 7 and 10 days, but sometimes it happens in as little as 2 days.
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
Cats can jump up to 7 times their tail length.
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
There are up to 60 million feral cats in the United States alone.
In the 1930s, two Russian biologists discovered that color change in Siamese kittens depend on their body temperature. Siamese cats carry albino genes that work only when the body temperature is above 98° F. If these kittens are left in a very warm room, their points won’t darken and they will stay a creamy white.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Tests done by the Behavioral Department of the Musuem of Natural History conclude that while a dog's memory lasts about 5 minutes, a cat's recall can last as long as 16 hours.
Mohammed loved cats and reportedly his favorite cat, Muezza, was a tabby. Legend says that tabby cats have an “M” for Mohammed on top of their heads because Mohammad would often rest his hand on the cat’s head.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
A tiger's stripes are like fingerprints
A cat has approximately 60 to 80 million olfactory cells (a human has between 5 and 20 million).
Cats only sweat through their paws and nowhere else on their body
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
An adult lion's roar can be heard up to five miles (eight kilometers) away.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
A cat has more bones than a human being; humans have 206 and the cat has 230 bones.
Cheetahs do not roar, as the other big cats do. Instead, they purr.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
In ancient Egypt, mummies were made of cats, and embalmed mice were placed with them in their tombs. In one ancient city, over 300,000 cat mummies were found.
Both humans and cats have identical regions in the brain responsible for emotion.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
Perhaps the most famous comic cat is the Cheshire Cat in Lewis Carroll’s Alice in Wonderland. With the ability to disappear, this mysterious character embodies the magic and sorcery historically associated with cats.
Approximately 40,000 people are bitten by cats in the U.S. annually.
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
The largest cat breed is the Ragdoll. Male Ragdolls weigh between 12 and 20 lbs (5.4-9.0 k). Females weigh between 10 and 15 lbs (4.5-6.8 k).
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.
In the original Italian version of Cinderella, the benevolent fairy godmother figure was a cat.
The first cat in space was a French cat named Felicette (a.k.a. “Astrocat”) In 1963, France blasted the cat into outer space. Electrodes implanted in her brains sent neurological signals back to Earth. She survived the trip.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Every year, nearly four million cats are eaten in Asia.
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
A happy cat holds her tail high and steady.
Many Egyptians worshipped the goddess Bast, who had a woman’s body and a cat’s head.
In Ancient Egypt, when a person's house cat passed away, the owner would shave their eyebrows to reflect their grief.
